---
layout: post
title: Freewrite
published: true
---

With this summer's FIFA World Cup approaching, I can't help but wonder who are the favorites to win the title. The last iteration of World Cup ended in heartbreak for Messi and Co. (Argentina), with a narrow loss to Germany in extra time for a final score of 0-1. I've watched that tiebreaking goal by Mario Gotze a countless number of times; in short, it was a sublime exhibition of playmaking by Andre Schurle and textbook finishing by Gotze, all while under immense pressure. Argentina were relentless in their attacking press throughout the match, evinced by Gonzalo Higuain's seeming early goal in the 29th minute that was ruled offside, but it was not enough. It was the Germans' tenacity and resolve to score that proved peerless. Maybe we'll see a repeat of the same finals matchup that took place four years ago? According to CBS Sports, Germany is favored to win it all, followed by Brazil. Personally, I'd favor the Argentinians, as Messi has demonstrated his superior form and goal-scoring abilities throughout the club season.

Shifting my mind's eye from soccer to basketball, I find it frustrating that the balance of talent in the NBA's two conferences has shifted definitively to the West. The Rockets, Warriors, Thunder, Spurs, Trailblazers, Timberwolves; the list of formidable teams is seemingly endless. How I yearn for the days when two juggernauts, one from each conference, would clash in an epic seven-game series. Even as recently as the 2016 NBA Finals, in which the Cavs overcame a 3-1 deficit to claim their first championship, the finals were enthralling to say the least. But now, with Kyrie Irving's unexpected departure and Kevin Love's hand injury, the Cavs are left with a dearth of talent that has tarnished their season. Yes, they're still in third place in the East; but that doesn't bode well for a title run, not to mention the stiff competition they will face in a potential conference finals matchup against the Celtics. If the Cavs do reach the Finals, I'm afraid that even Lebron won't be able to surmount the sheer firepower that Golden State wields. With four All-Stars and a versatile, diligent supporting cast, the Warriors are surely the preordained favorites.

Wrapping up today's post, I'd like to go off on a completely different tangent and delve into current events. So recently, Trump disclosed his plans to enact a tariff on all aluminum, steel, and European car imports, which he states is motivated by a desire to reduce trade deficits and forge a new NAFTA agreement with Mexico and Canada. Not only is this ideology inherently misguided, for Trump is now mixing two spheres of trade policy (by this I mean the NAFTA agreement and the tariffs) traditionally kept separate, it could also lead to trade wars with foreign countries. The EU has already unveiled its plans to retaliate by placing tariffs on exclusively American products such as Harley Davidsons, Kentucky bourbon, and bluejeans if Trump follows through with his threats. Furthermore, the tariff would dismantle a global alliance against China's overproduction of steel and aluminum, which has flooded the global market with cheap metals. Trump has stated that he will not budge on his stance unless a "fairer" NAFTA agreement is reached with Mexico and Canada. His tactic seems warranted from a tactical standpoint: restrict access to the lucrative U.S. market (in which Canada is the largest exporter of steel and aluminum), and leverage this position to shape a more advantageous trade agreement. However, this tactic does not seem feasible in light of a key fact as reported by the Wall Street Journal: Ildefonso Guajardo, Mexico's economy minister, has stated that "to make concessions to protect ourselves from these tariffs, is not a scenario." On another note, what perplexes me is why Trump would impose the tariff globally, applying it to countries not involved in the continental free trade agreement (with the exception of China of course). But that's probably a question for someone more well-versed in economic theory.
